---
layout: post
category : thoughts
tags : [Ben Franklin, history]
---
{% include JB/setup %}
I struggle to comprehend how our country has changed since its founding.
Reading the autobiography of Ben Franklin I am struck by the amount of
civility that abounds in the congress. People were actually pleasant
enough to argue about an issue, compromise, then create a document that
everyone liked. Has the character of our person's changed that
dramatically.


This country lacks a solid moral compass. Our effects create the future
yet we discard any ideas that take that into account. Everything is
about the present. What helps me and now is not soon enough.


How can our youth understand this idea if the majority of adults refuse
to accept the notion.


There is a moral struggle going on in our country. The right is scared
of changes, progress, and new ideas. The left is afraid of shit I dunno-
maybe how our country is spiraling down and down with every new law
passed.


Our country was founded on compromise, new ideas, and a basic moral
constitution. Where did those founding principles go.


Would we be able to recognize the benefit of a public hospital or
library today. Could those institutions be created in this political
climate? I doubt it. The public hospital first proposed required that
the government match and private contributions. That would never happen
in a million years. What changed?


Ben Franklin had an interesting line in his autobiography about people's
unwillingness to change. He understood that accepting new ideas is
difficult unless the situation forces it. How can we put ourselves in
situations to force new ideas while remaining comfortable- or is that
even possible. Perhaps it is the trickiness of situations that allow us
to see situations in new light.


Franklin was a powerful man, yet he did not act is such a way. Franklin
wanted everyone to accept an idea before it was put into practice. He
was able to be convincing be trying to find what that person's
individual interest or notion was. He then worked to tie that to the big
picture.

Perhaps, we just lack that sort of big picture thinkers. Franklin was
able to do a remarkable job of bringing everyone together without
forcing one side to concede more than another. He wanted the largest
benefit to the public in each situation.


