---
layout: post
category : thoughts
tags : [starting]
---
{% include JB/setup %}

How to i succeed in the goal of my blog?

First, I suppose I should figure out what that goal is. Or, would the
more organic route be better here. Either way building the habit of
writing is more important. Without doing that there is no way for me to achieve my goal. What is the best way to go about that? 

Which comes first, quality or quantity? 

In order to start, I need to decide what I want to start with. I have a couple ideas for posts. I think I need to narrow them down, focus and start writing. Write about one minute detail of what I am interested in. Build up to the big picture. Focus on the simple stuff first. Then when you gain experience you can gain understanding of how to communicate the more difficult ideas.

So where do I start? How small? 

There are so many things I am interested in- it is difficult to start small. Picking one little thing to focus on each week may make it easier to cover it bit by bit. Every day I could build up my arguments and finalize the thing to a better paper. 

The thing is that I wont necessarily want to pursue things in such a linear fashion. How often do I think linearly? Who thinks linearly?

How can one organize thinking in nonlinear fashion without confusing the reader. Or the author for that matter. As a reader we tend to skip around anyways. What importance do we gain from the structure of the writing. 

Back to starting small. 

Where can I start small? I need to find something that I am really interested in, something that applies to Seamless, something important for the big picture. I think I may be setting the bar to high though. Starting small and doing something important are distinctly separate actions. 

I have been here before. I remember this moment. How can I use that to guide the decisions I make? What do I know in this moment that I did not in that? 

