---
layout: post
category : thoughts
tags : [random]
---
{% include JB/setup %}
The resistance is so powerful. What is the best way to overcome it?

In order to have a blog I must write. In order to write I need to have a blog. It is interesting how
resistance makes it so that in order to start you have to act against yourself. Where does this get
us? How has the human species gotten so far if everything is an act against ourself?

Ada Lovelace and Charles Bagget(sp) were powerful figures. They imagined a world that did not exist.
Then they put themselves into that world and imagined what tools would exist. That is difficult. Not
only were they using their imagination to create new worlds. They were able to understand the laws
of that world enough to have ideas in them. It is almost as if they were telling the future in order
to create the future.

How can I do this in my own life? I can create my own future. But in order to create that future do
I first need to understand what that future is?

If that is the case then I must set my sights on something and make it my goal. Perhaps I would like
to save humanity. Or maybe I would just like to be happy. If I set one of those as my goal will the
future be shaped by that. If everyone on earth has a passion and can make art- how to we decide
which medium to use. What is the best medium for me?

I feel like I ask too many questions in my writing. I more powerful writer may set out to answer one
question, then use the entire page to lead to that answer. What is a writer that has more questions
than answers?

If Seth Godin is right, my life is filled with boxes. There is the box of myself. I feel like that
would be easy to poke. Then there is to box of my neighborhood and the city and on and on until we
reach the box of humanity. If I make it the goal to poke my own box, will I be giving up my ability
to poke the larger boxes. It does not make any sense the other way around. If I were to poke the box
of humanity I would also be poking my box. The largest box cannot expand without expansion occurring
inside of it.

So which path is better? Probably neither. Better does not matter. Perhaps the question is which
path has been put before me? But if that were the right question why does it seem there are so many
answers?

In this writing I have set out to overcome resistance. But have I done it if I do not ship anything?

Changing your posture is very powerful. I need to change my posture at work.

Unfortunately it is not about believing that you are a linchpin. You have to be one, act like one,
and ship like one. Shipping like a linchpin requires hard work. I can do hard work. But what can I
do to start shipping?

At the face it seems so easy: start, do, ship. But it is amazing how quickly things can get
complicated. How do I start? Do this or do that? Can you consider 'this' shipped?

Without guidance on how to succeed as a linchpin, how can you hope to become one? Maybe that is the
whole idea. The linchpin does not need guidance because THEY are the linchpin, they provide the
guidance. So if that is the case, how can I guide myself to become a linchpin.
